Protein Structure Selection and Preprocessing

Transmembrane molecule that 



Task 1.1
How many structures are available for EGFR?

around 30 when filtering for human only, from X-Ray, resolution < 2.0 Angström, and deposition date >2010

Task 1.2

Header names the molecule function and exact name

ATOM consists of information on the type of atom, position number, in which Amino acid, spatial coordinates,
temperature factor


DFG -in and out
http://kinase.com/wiki/index.php/Activation_loop

The impact of the kinase conformational state on inhibitor potency and selectivity is an 
important but poorly understood problem in kinase inhibitor drug discovery. The breakthrough 
drug imatinib showed us several years ago that the plasticity of kinase structure can enable the 
development of selective kinase inhibitors despite the high sequence conservation within this large protein family. 
Imatinib is classified as a “type II” kinase inhibitor because it contacts both the ATP cofactor binding site and 
an adjacent “allosteric” site available only when the kinase assumes a catalytically inactive conformation where 
the “Asp-Phe-Gly (DFG)” motif at the N terminus of the activation loop is flipped “out” relative to its conformation 
in the active state (“in”) (Figure 1B) (Nagar et al., 2002). In contrast, type I inhibitors including VX-680 (and dasatinib) 
bind at the ATP site but do not penetrate the allosteric pocket and therefore do not depend on specific kinase conformations 
for binding (Figure 1A). Type II inhibitors are generally more selective than type I inhibitors across the enormous human 
kinome (518 members) (Davis et al., 2011), but the reasons for this selectivity advantage are not well understood. Are the 
additional contacts made by type II inhibitors in the less well-conserved allosteric pocket critical for selectivity? Is it
that many kinases do not adopt, or only poorly adopt, the “DFG-out” conformation required for type II inhibitor binding? Or 
is it some of both? The results presented by Hari et al. (2013) in this issue of Chemistry & Biology address this question 
and suggest that inherent differences in the ability of kinases to adopt the DFG-out conformation can indeed contribute to the
selectivity of type II inhibitors.


